README.md, before:

`xk6` - Custom k6 Builder
===============================

This command line tool and associated Go package makes it easy to make custom builds of [k6](https://github.com/grafana/k6).

It is used heavily by k6 extension developers as well as anyone who wishes to make custom `k6` binaries (with or without extensions).

⚠️ Still in development.

Stay updated, be aware of changes, and please submit feedback! Thanks!

## Requirements

- [Go installed](https://golang.org/doc/install). At least version 1.17 is needed.

## Install

You can [download binaries](https://github.com/grafana/xk6/releases) that are already compiled for your platform, or build `xk6` from source:

```bash
$ go install go.k6.io/xk6/cmd/xk6@latest
```

This will install the `xk6` binary in your `$GOPATH/bin` directory.

If you're getting a `command not found` error when trying to run `xk6`, make sure that you precisely follow the [Go installation instructions](https://go.dev/doc/install) for your platform.
Specifically, ensure that the `$GOPATH/bin` directory is part of your `$PATH`. For example, you might want to add this to your shell's initialization file: `export PATH=$(go env GOPATH)/bin:$PATH`. See [this article](https://go.dev/doc/gopath_code#GOPATH) for more information.

If you're still struggling with this, consider downloading a pre-built binary from [our releases page](https://github.com/grafana/xk6/releases), and placing the binary in a directory already part of your `$PATH`.


## Command usage

The `xk6` command has two primary uses:

1. Compile custom `k6` binaries
2. A replacement for `go run` while developing k6 extensions

The `xk6` command will use the latest version of k6 by default. You can customize this for all invocations by setting the `K6_VERSION` environment variable.

As usual with `go` command, the `xk6` command will pass the `GOOS`, `GOARCH`, and `GOARM` environment variables through for cross-compilation.


### Custom builds

Syntax:

```
$ xk6 build [<k6_version>]
    [--output <file>]
    [--with <module[@version][=replacement]>...]
    [--replace <module=replacement>...]
```

- `<k6_version>` is the core k6 version to build; defaults to `K6_VERSION` env variable or latest.
- `--output` changes the output file.
- `--with` can be used multiple times to add extensions by specifying the Go module name and optionally its version, similar to `go get`. Module name is required, but specific version and/or local replacement are optional. For an up-to-date list of k6 extensions, head to our [extensions page](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/).
- `--replace` can be used multiple times to add replacements by specifying the Go module name and the replacement module, similar to `go mod edit -replace=`. Version of the replacement can be specified with the `@version` suffix in the replacement path.

Examples:

```bash
$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser

$ xk6 build v0.35.0 \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser@v0.1.1

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser=../../my-fork

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser=.

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser@v0.1.1=../../my-fork

# Build using a k6 fork repository. Note that a version is required if
# XK6_K6_REPO is a URI.
$ XK6_K6_REPO=github.com/example/k6 xk6 build master \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser

# Build using a k6 fork repository from a local path. The version must be omitted
# and the path must be absolute.
$ XK6_K6_REPO="$PWD/../../k6" xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser
```

### For extension development

If you run `xk6` from within the folder of the k6 extension you're working on _without the `build` subcommand_, it will build k6 with your current module and run it, as if you manually plugged it in and invoked `go run`.

The binary will be built and run from the current directory, then cleaned up.

The current working directory must be inside an initialized Go module.

Also note that because of the way xk6 works, vendored dependencies (the vendor directory created by `go mod vendor`) will not be taken into account when building a binary, and you don't need to commit them to the extension repository.

Syntax:

```
$ xk6 <args...>
```
- `<args...>` are passed through to the `k6` command.

For example:

```bash
$ xk6 version
$ xk6 run -u 10 -d 10s test.js
```

The race detector can be enabled by setting the env variable `XK6_RACE_DETECTOR=1` or through the `XK6_BUILD_FLAGS` env variable.


## Library usage

```go
builder := xk6.Builder{
	K6Version: "v0.35.0",
	Extensions: []xk6.Dependency{
		{
			PackagePath: "github.com/grafana/xk6-browser",
			Version:     "v0.1.1",
		},
	},
}
err := builder.Build(context.Background(), "./k6")
```

Versions can be anything compatible with `go get`.


## Environment variables

Because the subcommands and flags are constrained to benefit rapid extension prototyping, xk6 does read some environment variables to take cues for its behavior and/or configuration when there is no room for flags.

- `K6_VERSION` sets the version of k6 to build.
- `XK6_BUILD_FLAGS` sets any go build flags if needed. Defaults to '-ldflags=-w -s'.
- `XK6_RACE_DETECTOR=1` enables the Go race detector in the build.
- `XK6_SKIP_CLEANUP=1` causes xk6 to leave build artifacts on disk after exiting.
- `XK6_K6_REPO` optionally sets the path to the main k6 repository. This is useful when building with k6 forks.


---

> This project originally forked from the [xcaddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/xcaddy) project. **Thank you!**

Commit message:

Mention Docker usage in README
The grafana/xk6 image isn't published yet, which I'll do after the
Dockerfile is approved.

In the meantime, you can build it with e.g.:

docker build -t test/xk6 .

README.md, after:

`xk6` - Custom k6 Builder
===============================

This command line tool and associated Go package makes it easy to make custom builds of [k6](https://github.com/grafana/k6).

It is used heavily by k6 extension developers as well as anyone who wishes to make custom `k6` binaries (with or without extensions).

⚠️ Still in development.

Stay updated, be aware of changes, and please submit feedback! Thanks!

## Docker

The easiest way to use xk6 is via our [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/xk6/). This avoids having to setup a local Go environment, and install xk6 manually.

For example, to build a k6 v0.43.0 binary with the [xk6-kafka](https://github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka) and [xk6-output-influxdb](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb) extensions, you would run:

```bash
docker run --rm -it -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "$PWD:/xk6" grafana/xk6 build v0.43.0 \
  --with github.com/mostafa/xk6-kafka@v0.17.0 \
  --with github.com/grafana/xk6-output-influxdb@v0.3.0
```

This would create a `k6` binary in the current working directory.

Note the use of the `-u` (user) option to specify the user and group IDs of the account on the host machine. This is important for the `k6` file to have the same file permissions as the host user.

The `-v` (volume) option is also required to mount the current working directory inside the container, so that the `k6` binary can be written to it.

If you prefer to setup Go and use xk6 without Docker, see the "Local Installation" section below.


## Local Installation

### Requirements

- [Go installed](https://golang.org/doc/install). At least version 1.17 is needed.

### Install xk6

You can [download binaries](https://github.com/grafana/xk6/releases) that are already compiled for your platform, or build `xk6` from source:

```bash
$ go install go.k6.io/xk6/cmd/xk6@latest
```

This will install the `xk6` binary in your `$GOPATH/bin` directory.

If you're getting a `command not found` error when trying to run `xk6`, make sure that you precisely follow the [Go installation instructions](https://go.dev/doc/install) for your platform.
Specifically, ensure that the `$GOPATH/bin` directory is part of your `$PATH`. For example, you might want to add this to your shell's initialization file: `export PATH=$(go env GOPATH)/bin:$PATH`. See [this article](https://go.dev/doc/gopath_code#GOPATH) for more information.

If you're still struggling with this, consider downloading a pre-built binary from [our releases page](https://github.com/grafana/xk6/releases), and placing the binary in a directory already part of your `$PATH`.


## Command usage

The `xk6` command has two primary uses:

1. Compile custom `k6` binaries
2. A replacement for `go run` while developing k6 extensions

The `xk6` command will use the latest version of k6 by default. You can customize this for all invocations by setting the `K6_VERSION` environment variable.

As usual with `go` command, the `xk6` command will pass the `GOOS`, `GOARCH`, and `GOARM` environment variables through for cross-compilation.


### Custom builds

Syntax:

```
$ xk6 build [<k6_version>]
    [--output <file>]
    [--with <module[@version][=replacement]>...]
    [--replace <module=replacement>...]
```

- `<k6_version>` is the core k6 version to build; defaults to `K6_VERSION` env variable or latest.
- `--output` changes the output file.
- `--with` can be used multiple times to add extensions by specifying the Go module name and optionally its version, similar to `go get`. Module name is required, but specific version and/or local replacement are optional. For an up-to-date list of k6 extensions, head to our [extensions page](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/).
- `--replace` can be used multiple times to add replacements by specifying the Go module name and the replacement module, similar to `go mod edit -replace=`. Version of the replacement can be specified with the `@version` suffix in the replacement path.

Examples:

```bash
$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser

$ xk6 build v0.35.0 \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser@v0.1.1

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser=../../my-fork

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser=.

$ xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser@v0.1.1=../../my-fork

# Build using a k6 fork repository. Note that a version is required if
# XK6_K6_REPO is a URI.
$ XK6_K6_REPO=github.com/example/k6 xk6 build master \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser

# Build using a k6 fork repository from a local path. The version must be omitted
# and the path must be absolute.
$ XK6_K6_REPO="$PWD/../../k6" xk6 build \
    --with github.com/grafana/xk6-browser
```

### For extension development

If you run `xk6` from within the folder of the k6 extension you're working on _without the `build` subcommand_, it will build k6 with your current module and run it, as if you manually plugged it in and invoked `go run`.

The binary will be built and run from the current directory, then cleaned up.

The current working directory must be inside an initialized Go module.

Also note that because of the way xk6 works, vendored dependencies (the vendor directory created by `go mod vendor`) will not be taken into account when building a binary, and you don't need to commit them to the extension repository.

Syntax:

```
$ xk6 <args...>
```
- `<args...>` are passed through to the `k6` command.

For example:

```bash
$ xk6 version
$ xk6 run -u 10 -d 10s test.js
```

The race detector can be enabled by setting the env variable `XK6_RACE_DETECTOR=1` or through the `XK6_BUILD_FLAGS` env variable.


## Library usage

```go
builder := xk6.Builder{
	K6Version: "v0.35.0",
	Extensions: []xk6.Dependency{
		{
			PackagePath: "github.com/grafana/xk6-browser",
			Version:     "v0.1.1",
		},
	},
}
err := builder.Build(context.Background(), "./k6")
```

Versions can be anything compatible with `go get`.


## Environment variables

Because the subcommands and flags are constrained to benefit rapid extension prototyping, xk6 does read some environment variables to take cues for its behavior and/or configuration when there is no room for flags.

- `K6_VERSION` sets the version of k6 to build.
- `XK6_BUILD_FLAGS` sets any go build flags if needed. Defaults to '-ldflags=-w -s'.
- `XK6_RACE_DETECTOR=1` enables the Go race detector in the build.
- `XK6_SKIP_CLEANUP=1` causes xk6 to leave build artifacts on disk after exiting.
- `XK6_K6_REPO` optionally sets the path to the main k6 repository. This is useful when building with k6 forks.


---

> This project originally forked from the [xcaddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/xcaddy) project. **Thank you!**
